---
layout: post
title: "Phenomena of the ecliptic"
sub-title: "Needless venture into the bright heat."
date: 2025-06-22 21:00:00 +09
permalink: "/fulminant/"
location: "東京都世田谷区北沢"
ordinal: 48
preview: "I cross a modest blue steel bridge across the nearby gorge; great blooms of lichen, peeling at their edges, cling to the paint."
---

### D'Agata's 'Halls of Fame'

The solemn young man on youtube who livestreams his silent writing sessions overlays a list of what he is currently reading through the use of common software. One of them is John D'Agata's 'Halls of Fame,' a book of experimental essays published in 2001 (though collected through the 1990s), of which I have only read the first three. Previously the same streamer recommended 'About a Mountain' by the same author, which centers on the history of the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. The author teaches at Iowa------has put out many of their works through Graywolf Press out of Minneapolis, has collected a quiet series of awards, has probably become loved and appreciated by a select cadre. They are parallaxed against constellations I know the names of. He attended Deep Springs, or so it says on his Wikipedia page, which my brother once spent a few months obsessing over, to such an extent that he submitted an application, though nothing came of it. I imagine him though, in another life, out in a desert somewhere, scratching out thoughts on the blind poet, then lassoing a steer. He rubs dirt off onto his pants.

His writing is close to the ground------galliform------as in 'About a Mountain,' the American Southwest always seems to materialize sneakily, a great attractor, conjured by a (perhaps too large) Authorial Voice built out of anecdotes attributed to (preferentially) children and lunatics. He spends time, always, seemingly, picking some at factoidal gravel, which scritches pleasantly against itself, clumping and coming undone.

Nothing is still when D'Agata observes; he says, in the disheveled home of a flat-earth society president, "something I write down writhes along the lines of
paper in my notebook as it curls around my hand," and I wonder if he actually believes and feels this. He says, of a bus driver guiding an $11 tour of the Hoover Dam, "his words emit circles, whip bubbles around our heads. His sentences wrap around the bus and greet themselves in midair." I recognize my compulsion to mobilize and animate language and its referents, also, but the tic sits strangely with me, like it had been assumed that I would lose interest if anything in the writing fell still even for a moment. Would that really be so bad? The mean-free-path of his writing is just modest. There is little to no glassiness. I think I am generous about it, though, and ought to give even more slack: his writing is luxurious and excited, not necessarily ornate. There are sections in the dialect of a child. Much of the collection's essays' style follows reference books (i.e., evoking the curious juxtapositions of an index or glossary, where information is arranged lexicographically).

I read so little non-fiction, so few essays, that I imagine I am dazzled by what are now, within MFA *crucibula*, dismissed as flimsy tricks and affectations. Reliance on the koan personal anecdote, insertion of footnotes (and sub-footnotes), collapse into lists, reproduction of whole passages from translations spanning thousands of years, overusing high-low dialect, milking the well-worn *chiasmus*. D'Agata must, I imagine, have the occasional student who delivers a draft dripping with his excreta, which after an initial flutter of tenderness (by now much reduced, carefully cauterized), he addresses forthrightly in a half-page of single-spaced well-meaning *advice* ~~If this sounds as though from personal experience, it is. Spring of 2017.~~.

I think I like the book also because I've been reading from a 20MiB detailed scan of a library book that I filched from Anna's Archive on a recent sub-legal binge. The pages' texture and yellow is well-rendered, and the OCR is workable. My M4 MacBook's Liquid Retina XDR display nearly captures, I think, the thirsty rasp of the mass-market paper.

### Ozu's '晩春'

On Friday night I project on my wall, from my Criterion account, Ozu's 'Late Spring,' which I cannot remember for sure if I have seen before. This is not as careless as it seems; there is 'Early Summer,' 'The End of Summer,' 'Late Autumn,' and 'Tokyo Story,' among others, at least three of which use 原節子 as a character named 紀子. If I did see it, it must have been during an EALC course during 2018 or 2019, during which at least one Ozu film was shown, and definitely from among the 紀子 trilogy.

It is easier to be in love with actors who are dead. I am allowed to be fond for Marlene Dietrich and Anna May Wong in Shanghai Express, and Setsuko Hara in this film, far more easily than any coeval. I was mainly supine with my head propped up by a pillow as I watched. There is no point in going on about the usual Ozu style; static cameras, deep dark interiors. The 能 scene was quite wonderful in its lengthiness. I have never seen 能 in person; they are performances barely made for people to watch, such is their divinity. When the silent vase appeared I had given into the movie completely, or else was close to sleep, and allowed myself to feel very humbly about death. Sestuko Hara died in 2015, on my 18th birthday, which in its recency is almost unbelievable.

### The interior of 千葉県

On Saturday I take a train to Chiba city, which takes about two hours, and from there depart on a two-car 1960s era diesel train (the 小湊鐵道) deep into the center of the 房総半島. The train bounces gently on its bogies; almost all of the stations are unmanned, and maintained as they were in the early 20th century. The signs are hand-painted. I stop at 養老渓谷駅, near the end of the line, whose main attractions are 温泉 with mineral-blackened water, a deep rocky canyon through which a river flows, the remains of a natural earthen arch that collapsed in 1975, and a tunnel through a mountain incorrectly dug so that its ends didn't meet up.

I walked slowly without much of a plan; the journey was too long, and my time too short, to settle anywhere. One of those blazingly bright, hot days. I sipped water where I could and reapplied sunblock. The main draw for most people traveling (there were plenty, though less than during the peak spring and fall season) is the train, which passes mostly along mosaics of rice-fields, through aging tunnels, and down overgrown trenches. The rice plants had taken, now just over a foot tall------I don't know much about rice cultivation, besides that the 凹 fields must be flooded at least once, and the dried stalks are burnt some time in the fall (which has a distinct and strong smell beyond that of simple smoke). I see bent figures in wide-brimmed hats tending to various agricultural tasks. Fans mounted to the roof of the old train cars swivel on an complex gimbals. Near the station most of the houses have substantial vegetable gardens; I see the filigreed plumes of carrots, and the ruby hips of radishes. One house reserves a triangle of its yard for careful rows of swaying wheat, which looks exactly as I imagined it must.

I ought not to travel so much alone, but some things are difficult to address. The train has plenty of young couples, who for the trip back appear uniformly exhausted and fall asleep on each other, encouraged by the train's slow sway and the warm breeze through the open windows. A thin teenager holds a portable fan up to his date's face, adjusting her bangs. Someone else presses a bottle of green tea to the back of their neck, and their expression smooths.
