---
layout: post
title: "Neap tide"
sub-title: "There is a triangle of yellow light on my bookshelf."
date: 2025-05-08 10:00:00 +09
permalink: "/haruspicy/"
location: "東京都世田谷区北沢"
ordinal: 46
preview: "Absolution and embarrassment."
---

### On being sad

*Note that my ability to write is, for whatever reason, coupled with feeling especially sad or desperate, meaning what is put down is colored by transient crises.*
{: .quote}

Part of the irreality of the last couple of years must be related to that the few people I've loved mostly don't talk to me anymore. Very little of this has been malicious, at least obviously. Alternatives are too numerous: time, distance, inchoate misalignments gone to seed. But because I have often kept to myself outside of these relationships, because I have moved every four years and recently quite far, because I think too often on things which could have been and thus am content to focus on only a few individuals for a long time, the decline in regular human interaction has felt precipitous. This leads to that feeling I have mentioned before of being 'divinely cursed'------i.e., that this whole thing, when I forget that my asociality is long established, is basically deserved retribution for behavior and/or essential defects. This is made complex and miserable by that I do actually harbor some real and off-putting defects.

When people are consistently sad they are not fun to be around. Usually these people are also quite aware of when they are being tended to in-part to mitigate this sadness because it is 'bumming out' the other person. This makes the sad person more sad, because their sadness has metastasized, and because they see this, and this paralyzes the muscles they should be kneading to get ready to try to become more independently interesting and thus admirable.

I am aware enough of the current entanglements of people I've loved that I can basically see that I am lacking many of the traits which could alleviate this contagious, sympathetic sadness well enough. I am not committed enough to artistic pursuits against which being sad can be interpreted as a sort of ascetic suffering; I do not have a high powered job making stupid amounts of money against which being sad actually recovers a glaze of modern ironic cool; I do not even have the heart for the kind of really intense obsession for someone else against which being sad acquires the velvet sheen of tragedy.

I also lack the nerve to really bother these people about this; I haven't made this very clear, but when I talk to someone outright about feeling sad it is only because it has taken over a truly frightening proportion of my day. Supinity. Head-banging-on-wall. Poor meals. Perpetual sleepiness. This is of course not the right way to communicate one's feelings to others, because it must be true that smaller sadnesses are easier to mitigate than larger ones, but once again I have known too few people: am too aware that to speak of one's chronic sadness basically euthanizes the other person's ability to be totally comfortable around oneself and thus tamp one's own sadnesses, and so on. It is all quite fragile.

It really doesn't feel like an impossibility to be alone for an extremely long time, these days. Or to eventually settle for piecemeal relationships (if I have not already) bound primarily against a fear of being alone for an extremely long time. This is another symptom of the cursèd aspect: that there might be something common and endogenous and indelible that encourages people to give me attention for a time but then eventually stop providing that attention, stop deriving any sort of solace or amusement which would compel them to want to continue talking to me, etc. And that even if this defect were a MacGuffin or a hologram, existing more truthfully in these other people and only apparently or effectively inside of me, it would still mean that I've been too dumb or impotent to apply salves to those other peoples' wounds, which has to have basically the same takeaway lesson. Because, whether by idiocy or desire, I have at times really believed that people have loved me, or aspects of me, and have felt my impulse to act quite seriously and earnestly underneath love's penumbra. I am very pliable to what I perceive as the intuitive actions of others: very taken by them. I place otherwise inexplicable faith in the spontaneous action, or admission, or one's purposeful inconveniencing of oneself. Such acts make me believe things like that I want to be there with them, to give them what they want.

I really don't think I want to understand everything all of the time, nor do I need to be loved and attended to constantly, but this all feels very impossible now, like that I have to start rectifying my soul, or autoclaving those parts of me which I had thought were pleasant but are in fact just boluses of exhaustion. Because otherwise I am just living far away from everyone, making no money, producing nothing of practical or spiritual value, and moreover the entire process of arriving here is made to feel like a series of deep mistakes portending nothing: my daily life appears, when I am tired and sad, to have no real signs of having ever been close to anyone. There is no one even who can be shown those (to them meaningless) objects and images which would in principle signify the importance of my past relationships. I know, or have been told by distant sources, that such things are alleviated over time, in meager steps, but what is the actual mechanism of this? If it were simple there would be no need for it, and if it were complicated then it must contain the possibility of abject failure.

This is some of the core of the feeling of irreality. My life, by whatever admixture of happenstance and genuine errors of my own and the people I have been close to, recently appears to signify nothing. I don't think that I mean that the possibility for a good life is gone, but rather that there are so few immediate ways for me to feel the reasons for and effects of my life heretofore that everything has gone quite flat. This flatness is the sadness, I think that I mean: like that I do not even really get to feel sad *about* someone, or *for* something anymore, but that I am made to feel as though I have been *prohibited* from certain normalizing states of mind and communication. That this prohibition is in the shape of some universal physical law, rather than a command or a judgement, and thus quite distant and inscrutable.

I imagine it will get better: that beyond the daily fluctuations in my mood there will changes of greater substance later on. It's just that it's appeared so quickly, it seems, this aridity, but then immediately that the apparent quickness is likely downstream of my own inattentiveness over years, from which it has to be assumed, as there is no sign otherwise, that I have gotten no better better at the sort of slow, nutritive exchanges and observances that might ward off similar crises to come.
