---
layout: post
title: "title"
sub-title: "subtitle"
date: 2022-06-15 00:00:00 -04
permalink: "/link/"
location: "Location"
ordinal: 0
preview: "Currently empty."
---
I make up the following fact: lying flat on the ground keeps one within the coolest stratum of air in a room. Cold sinks; this is something we learn in school, and something felt in things like our grandparent's basements along with more basic, less explicable fears. This simple physical phenomenon may be the reason many believe ghosts inhabit dark, quiet, cool, low places. I spend the hours between noon and three p.m. supine, straining my eyes to read my phone. The phone hovers dangerously above my face. Outside the air seethes. It is grievously refractive. This is the most dangerous thing I do all day. The lowest six inches of my room contain, I desperately hope, the most chilling ghouls of Massachusetts, of which we all know there are many.

Occasionally I remove sweat from my forehead with the back of my hand, which I then wipe on my area rug. I transfer moisture, which must, I imagine, reëvaporate and return to the humidity of the room. I exhale a warm envelope for myself. The doors and windows are shut very tight against the catastrophic temperature. The word hermetic and hermit share comically obvious etymology. The sun is acutely zenithal, unaccommodating, and cruel. It pries through cracks to cut glowing slits in other things. I keep a box fan going, elevated on a small broken wooden stool whose foot is splinted with duct tape. The fan mixes the air of the room, which challenges, I begin to think, my theory of different strata of different temperatures. I consider turning the fan off, but I like the way the motive air feels across my perpetually weeping forehead. Somewhere far away something is being furiously burned to turn a turbine whose electricity turns my fan here.
