---
layout: post
title: ""
sub-title: "."
date: 2025-04-13 10:10:00 +09
permalink: "/cissoid/"
location: "東京都世田谷区北沢"
ordinal: 43
preview: "."
---

It's raining outside the café. The large wooden table on the patio is only half under the awning, meaning its far edge is glossy. On the dry side two men sit with laptops open discussing some business. One of the laptops sits on a stand, which I interpret as a power move. One has a mug and the other a cappucino cup; both are white. The mug flares at the top and bottom: a shape I've only ever been able to associate with the cooling towers of nuclear power plants. The back door of the café, mainly glass, opens up on an overgrown lawn------the rain and warmth have caused green to explode. I have noticed, on my walks around 三四郎池, that tree trunks are now coated in moss and lichens when they were not just a few weeks ago. I make a note to air out my apartment more frequently, to clean out the trap in my sink, to hang my towels in the sun when I can------anything to keep away mold. Yesterday I washed and dried a few glass jars that had been crowding my fridge; they now sit in a line on a window-sill above my sink.

Last night I watched 'Kids' (1995) on the Internet Archive, which I liked a whole lot less than 'Gummo' (1997). I got no sense in this one of what Korine thought was important------what would make him cry. The movie is scattered with moments of grace: the kids at times give money to the homeless, are entranced by a subway busker, give fruit to a small child, cradle each-other, but these are so unattended that they feel like bits. I can understand that the movie's mundane violence is supposed to intend that most horrible things don't couple to any real interpretable narrative, but this also seems against basic human impulses to nevertheless think of one's own life in narrative terms: to feel immense discomfort when this is challenged. Any child is deep into an understanding of their own lives dominated by theretofore paucity of input; any book or movie a child experiences is engrossing. The children watch a tiny CRT with skateboard tricks in the movie while doing whippets but this leads nowhere. They beat a boy nearly to death with a skateboard later. I read somewhere that Korine found the male lead on the street while he was doing skateboarding tricks and cursing------what a disservice, then, to play him as someone who cares about so little.

I don't know, though. I can't imagine being a child in The City in the 1990s. It never occurred to me to huff glue or do whippets, though our mother for some reason worried immensely about this and told us many times never to consider it------consequently such actions probably became sort of dreamy and romantic to me then, further distancing and ameliorating them. Maybe I was immensely stupid, in a way, for never considering anything like this seriously (either totally rejecting or accepting). Maybe the movie is trying to *be* brain-damaged and *about* the brain-damaged: this seems sort of doomed. I don't know if it is a sin for a movie to be boring, and why its lack of sentiment seems to read, to me, as an overabundance of sentiment anyway. The whole thing wraps around, almost, to being a saccharine PSA against kids gone bad. Gummo felt like it was about the unimaginable extent to which we should be forced to expand any definition of 'love', while Kids seemed to ask for so little.

I have wondered recently if there is anything I can do to feel more energetic during the afternoon and evenings that doesn't reduce to substance abuse (primarily caffeine). I can sense, as though I were charting some abstruse astronomical transits or occlusions, that there is some combination of food, sleep, media consumption, and socialization that seems to prime me to work more fluidly, but the exceptions to any simple rules has made progress slow. Most of this is tied up, as it is for many people, in the tight reward loop offered by short-form video content, but this seems pretty downstream from other issues.

What is worse is that there are flashes of this kind of level focus------two nights ago I spent time reading about the details of computing general-relativistic corrections to the precession of the perihelion of Mercury, which when quoted is uniformly given such shallow treatment that one is made to wonder if *anyone* has actually computed it. I found some treatment by some fastidious graduate student over ten years ago; GR is the perfect substrate for humilty. Approximation after approximation is applied until all that remains is to laboriously compute sixteen Christoffel symbols, and then shunt these into tensor after tensor, and then derive some unwieldy equation of motion, the relevant quantity of which relates to some pair of evil elliptic integrals. Quoted also always is that this is only the *correction* to the observed precession, which is dominated (by nearly ten-to-one) by 'contributions from other planets', a derivation of which I've still not found. It is this sort of work which feels sort of incorporatable into the messy bliss of human relationships-------it is much easier to imagine a composite life where one's day is spent compiling tables of integrals, and one's night is spent paying a few bils, cooking something basic and filling, and trying to plan with a spouse some small trip a few months hence to a warmer nearby coastal town. I have heard some legend that much of Mathematica's internal library for solving integrals is drawn from compendiums honed in the Soviet Bloc in the later part of the last century; what a disgrace that my small aluminum Mac Mini spits these out soundlessly at my request.

### before sleep

It's the following night; I plan to listen to a friend's thesis defense early into the morning local time, so I've holed up at my sitting desk with some mindless content on in the background. I've made tea with my Hario 急須: some mild herbal blend. I've placed a small mandarin by the Mac Mini for later snacking. A small CRT television I ordered a few days ago arrived, set on my doorstep; I tuck it next to my low MUJI shelves, on the opposite side from the small chest of drawers. The built-in VHS-player works------after getting home I watch a few minutes of Nausicaä, and then a few minutes of Serial Experiments Lain. The device eats and spits out the tapes noisily, spinning them up and down. By no real effort the number of screens I own has increased dramatically: my work laptop, my phone, my old laptop, an iPad, a Studio Display, and now a Sharp-brand CRT (2000年製). On the phone I told my sister once that my nights end by moving from smaller to smaller screens.

Last night instead of flipping aimlessly through shorter form video content I watched 'After Life' (1998), which in the original is called ワンダフルライフ (Wonderful Life). I liked it a lot------I feel averse to describing why, mainly because I find most instances of movie criticism (see above) annoying or reductive, but it feels like there is not much to do besides talk some about it. I think if death's form could be chosen I would like it to be as it was in 'After Life'. The setting felt like the campus I work at------or at least the old Yasuda-gothic buildings of the orignal, core campus, all done in thin brick and weather-ravaged porous stone. Old curled trees and fallen leaves. I am partial to the idea of death as a small and mild beauracracy. How it might be run like a small town's city hall, criss-crossed with basic rules toward collation and order, but not overrun by apathy, nor exhausted by throughput. I cried at the end, very simply. This started with しおり in the snow. I felt her her fear, how she was overwhelmed. In brief moments throughout I felt the enormity of the adjacency of death, smoothed over by the solace offered by the movie's idea that we might all be allowed however much time we want, at the end, to collect ourselves. In the film しおり goes out and takes photos in the world when she is supposed to be capturing reference for the small films made by the facility's workers------there is no harsh barrier between the world of the living and that of the processing center, and no one tries to run, or call to someone who can't hear them------her room's walls are covered in prints from past outings. I think this is my impulse, too: to collect and appreciate. I find small pleasures in observation quite easily, I think, and subsist on accrued data (and its signs, in objects and records). 

I have gathered more movies to eventually watch, and saved a few of them on the Internet Archive, though for now will keep the pace slow. On the train I read ヘヴン slowly, as usual, and at work I edit drafts, review papers, and try to scrape out ideas for the next few months and years. There is a 










































