---
layout: post
title: ""
sub-title: ""
date: 2025-02-04 10:00:00 +09
permalink: "/providence/"
location: "東京都世田谷区北沢"
ordinal: 39
preview: ""
---

### On grace, and being annoying

Yesterday on a walk I made myself think about my current, basic worries. This is different from worrying, which is less structured, and is felt as a tightness in the chest. Instead I tried to name some of the worries directly, which is sort of hard to do, as in addition to worrying I am also pretty good at explaining to myself why certain thoughts are irrational and unecessary. This makes it easy to get distracted and hermenutic and discouraged.

I worry about money, but only for suppositional reasons---as in, I worry against that I could not help a sibling or parent were they to need me to. Or that I worry about being bankrupted by an unforeseen medical emergency, though only so far as it would prevent me from helping people I know, were they to need me to. The edges of my worries about money are frayed, but at the center is this simple desire: to be able to solve problems for people I like for which money is the solution. This is not even admirably altruistic---my donations to charity are meager---if anything it is a lack of creativity, as I don't know what I would purchase were I to have an order of magnitude more money than I have now. I don't really want those Margiela tabi boots the girl on the train across from me was wearing (she also had a big yellow leather Margiella bag). I don't have use for a car. I wear my clothes into the ground, and spend so much time alone that my appearance, no matter how I actually feel about it, rarely really makes my life different than it would otherwise be. I realize the locus of my greed is a little displaced---like, that if I were to have children it'd be hard, if I had the money, not to send them to an embarrassingly private school. And it is hard for me to know, if I were truly unburdened by money, if I wouldn't immediately start to travel to see people frivolously, or acquire arcane fetishes. But the core is sort of sappy. Like that if my mother wanted to live in a bungalow on the northern coast of California during her final decades I'd want to help. That if my brother spiralled out and needed to crash it would be painful to have to refuse. This is probably a locally fucked view of things, a sort of self-defense mechanism based around the equation (money = options = potential), and moreover I use small purchases for dopamine all the time at some low level that doesn't threaten the hypothetical private school thing. Probably if I had millions I'd feel blessed by God and start gravitating toward politics, as many do, or have a small brick building in the appendix of some university somewhere that I associate memories of my youth with named after me.  But again, this is all so suppositional that it is strange that I worry so often and furiously about money; if I become destitute I doubt it'd be without warning, meaning I ought to be able to just relax my shoulders a little.

A second worry, which the above intermeshes insidiously with, is about enmirement. Many people worry about this, of course. In the concrete I mean I am sometimes hit with awful waves, like during these walks, of realizing my life doesn't feel any more expansive than it did at the beginning of grad school, etc. In a lot of ways I have fewer friends---most of my longest relationships have sort of imploded recently, maybe even in part due to their perception of my enmirement, which is another insidious thing---this, plus lack of interest in my paid-for work (of course, also insidiously, mainly because I have been doing the same work for so long, meaning the more tired of it I become the less ability I have to leave it) have me feeling like it is both five years ago and now at once, and that I have maybe let critical years 'pass by', made blank because the things I thought I was cultivating during those years aren't present or relevant now. I haven't even had the chance to 'Revolutionary Road' myself. I know that there is a lot of 'time' in principle, and that I am not yet truly deep into that pocket men hit in their mid thirties where things get really bleak and one's apartment furnishings start to get *really* nice, but I can feel a sort of dimple forming in relation to that. I don't know if I am really ready to perform the kind of actions that keep men like that from sticking their heads in ovens, though if I were to guess I don't think those men knew either, up and until they were right up against the critical moment---the old medical term: *crisis*.

I worry also about becoming bitter. Admittedly the barrier between this worry and the act of worrying is not always clear. I read online blogs by bitter men all of the time and it makes me sad because usually their lives aren't really going all that great and so the bitterness isn't even misguided. Here I mean by bitterness a sort of absence of levity in all things done, and constant debridement of one's past decisions, jewelers'-loop style, until one's exact path toward self-pity is basically totally understood, which induces a full-body ulcer. Soothing this pain is partly addressed, by the richer men, in buying eye-wateringly expensive hand-loom woolen rugs or midcentury furniture or hand-tinned copper cookware, or getting really knowledgable about certain migratory birds. Bitterness sometimes reads as someone continually clenching against the inevitability of further loss among the meager things they still have. And I hate the edges of this feeling---like that I am already stuck and lost and that my worth has been decided by everyone else and the consensus is uniformly abyssal (in accordance, the bitter mind says with an 'aha!', with its previous, internal assessment). Part of the antidote to bitterness is people, and cute events, and being young, and the clever intermesh between culture and consumption encouraged by cities. It can be staved off by awards and hookups and probably going to raves or renting a cabin for a weekend on a beach. Still, though, it feels to me increasingly very thermodynamic and irreversible and above all *unecessary* and *ugly* and I wish that I were less susceptible to it, or that at least I didn't believe that some people really seem to be able to escape it for much longer.

I guess deep down I think novelty is for children---it serves them because the chore of adolescence is to experience as much as possible as quickly as possible. The way that children seek out sweet things, despite nutritional deficits. It is much scarier, because it can seem much stupider, and can be less resilient, to settle and calcify (more charitably, to become deeply involved with, or to get monk-like about). It is like getting enough selenium: inconsequential until it's not. Still, like most of the worries enumerated above, pointing this out doesn't unknot the impulse. Novelty allows all sorts of narritivization---the luxurious ideas of what the person one has started dating might really be like, which as a bad writer I can get all knotted up in very quickly. Being settled and focused immediately frees certain reflexes up to self-analyze and pout and feel the aforementioned bitterness over---to realize that a lot of things are basically my fault, and that I'd probably have more people in my life who spoke to me regularly in intimate registers if I'd not done certain things, or had stayed the bitterness better, or written more prolifically, or moved to a different city.

Admittedly writing at length about one's worries doesn't do; if this draws sympathy then it is pretty much the sort that one affords to a stray cat with a goopy eye seen under an underpass: not untender, but snuffed out pretty much immediately. Basically all among things like money, enmirement, and bitterness are positively reinforcing, meaning that getting someone else to engage when things are bad basically requires grace, which is pretty thready and scarce. This leaves delusion and providence, which I guess this little memo has been written in supplication to---I make myself go outside, or write things, or stare at a little Mathematica terminal, and there remains the possibility of random, encouraging fluctuations, greased by basic pity a lot of humans feel for one-another, which might lead to other, more pleasing future enmirements.

### The rest of my time

Last night I watched 'It Happened One Night' (1934) on Criterion, which I've tried to turn to more because I've been buying too many DVDs in the way described above. I like pre-code stuff, like I've mentioned, and Frank Capra is familiar because my mother makes us watch 'It's a Wonderful Life' (1946) every year. Capra seems to like filming in downpours, which the bloom of the B&W stock makes very attractive. The framing is simple, and usually shots cut with a right-to-left wipe. I find it amusing the structure of a rom-com hasn't changed much in 91 years---how mature film was, something like a few decades after it practically came into coherence---the success of the movie still rests on Colbert and Gable being able to move their faces in the right way, and the dialogue avoiding obvious cliche. There's some vague attempt at indicating the realities of the great depression in the people filling out the backgrounds of the road-stops which compose the majority of the film's scenes, but it feels a little half-hearted. There's a diagetic music number thrown in about halfway through (fun), and a long take where Gable demonstrates the right way to hitchike at the end of which Colbert's laugh is so genuine that it makes it obvious that the two are being filmed, which by certain deep-brain stuff makes the movie much more affecting. The movie wraps up a little too fast, and seems skeptical at the idea of women making decisions, but I'm still curious at the simple effectiveness of its basic driving elements: plot-tethered but colloquial conversations between the two leads. I can feel why it did well in the American heartland when it was released, and feel pretty much no disdain for its choices or moves.
